# MULE
Group Project for CS 2340. Created a mock-up of the classic Atari game M.U.L.E. 

CS 2340 Atari M.U.L.E. Mockup

Joanna Parkhurst

TEAMMATES: McKenzie Elliot, Sarah Norris, Mani Japra, Alex Link, Justin Thornburgh

TASK: Re-create the classic Atari PC game while adding new play options, levels, images, etc. We were given a specific set of requirements along with freedom to take the game in a number of different directions.

TOOLS: Coded with JavaFX in IntelliJ. Used Gradle to build and github for version control. Utilized SCRUM and Agile methodologies throughout semester to plan and carry out the project.

M.U.L.E. BACKGROUND: MULE was a fun game for the old Atari computers. Players became a settler on the planet Irata (get it?) and buy land, produce food, energy and minerals which are used to help the colony grow. There is an auction each turn to allow players to trade items. The scoring of the game is interesting as is its history. See: external link: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/M.U.L.E. for some history. There is a commercial adaptation of the game for Windows called SpaceHorse at: external link: http://www.shrapnelgames.com/Gilligames/SH/SH_page.html you can download and play a demo to get a feel for the game, or you can go to play the original game in an emulator: external link: http://www.racketboy.com/retro/nintendo/nes/retro-masterpiece-mule Here is a web site where someone analyzed the compiled code and reverse engineered a bunch of information about the game: external link: http://bringerp.free.fr/RE/Mule/mule_document.html

LEVELS: The game can be played on three levels: Beginner, Standard and Tournament. These levels affect certain formula that are provided in the following paragraphs.

ROUNDS AND TURNS: Each time a player takes their move, buys things, emplaces a mule, etc. it is called a turn. Once through the player collection (i.e. each player getting a turn) is called a round. Within a round, turn order is determined by score. The lowest score goes first in each round, the highest last. The amount of time a player has is adjusted based on any shortages of supplies that the player has. A normal player has 50 seconds to make their turn. At the end of 50 seconds, the turn is over regardless of what the player is doing. A player may end their turn early if they desire. By gambling(see that section) a player can also get money for the remaining time of their turn. If a player has shortages, their turn time is reduced. If a player has a partial shortage (food amount > 0 but < table requirement) then their turn time is only 30 seconds. If a player has a complete shortage (food amount == 0) then their turn time is only 5 seconds. Energy requirements are 1 unit per emplaced mule. There is no ore requirement by players, but it does affect Mule availability at the store.

MAP AND PRODUCTION: The game map is a tile grid of 9 columns and 5 rows. The center tile is the town. Each tile represents a property that can be purchased by a player. Players may buy any of the other properties through the course of the game. When a player owns a property, that player's color is somehow shown in the property. The center column is a river. There are also plains and mountains. The type of terrain tile governs its production rate. Every mule in production needs one energy unit to produce. If there is no energy, then that mule produces nothing for that turn.

PLAYERS: The game is played by multiple players who take turns to play the game. The amount of time you have to take a turn is dependent on some mitigating factors. When time expires, that players turn is over. When starting the game players may choose to either be human, or to be one of the alien races. Races are: Human (hardest), Flapper(easiest), Bonzoid, Ugaite, Buzzite. Players should be able to choose a name that is used to identify them for the rest of the game.

THE STORE: In town, there is a store that you can purchase things from. The store has a limited quantity of things, and will run out unless players sell products to the store. MULE's are produced by ore, so if no one sells ore to the store, then no mules can be produced after the initial amount are sold. To buy something, the player enters the store during their turn and is presented with a menu of items to buy. The player may buy whatever they like subject to them having enough money to purchase the item. If you have a mule, you cannot buy another until you emplace the one you have.

GAME STARTUP: When the game starts, the players are prompted for the overall game information (difficulty and number of players 2-4) and map type (standard or random). In the original game, AI was provided. For this class, we will assume that all players are human and play hotseat. AI and multiplayer networking are extra credit and not required by your design.

After this, each player is allowed to pick a race (everyone can be the same one if desired), a color and a name. This is the name used by the game.

After each player has selected, the startup phase moves to property selection. The game map was then displayed. In the original game, each unowned property would highlight in turn and the current player would wait till the property they wanted was highlighted, then press select to buy it. If the game cycled through the last property, and the player had not selected, then they did not get a property that turn. The same procedure was followed for each player until all property was owned. The town cannot be purchased. For our version, we will allow players to just click on a property to purchase it, or to pass on a property. The first two properties are land grant properties meaning they are free. After that properties cost $300 each to purchase. A player may choose to pass to conserve money. If all players pass in a selection round, then property selection is over. Later in the game, players may enter the land office to purchase available properties. Any odd properties that were not selected (i.e. the number of tiles was not evenly divisible OR a player failed to select a property), those properties are auctioned off with the highest bidder receiving the property. How auctions occur is left to the design team. Auctions only occur if selection does not end early by all players passing.
